txSpace 1.0
11 February 2007

by Phil Christensen
phil@bubblehouse.org

Introduction
------------
txSpace is a MUD-like system for building virtual worlds. The goal was to
take the LambdaMOO approach to creating online worlds, and update it in hopes
of attracting new players to an old idea.

Like many MOO-clones before it, txSpace uses Python as its internal scripting
language. This provides a powerful environment for game authors, while a flexible
object model allows for creation of complex in-game objects.

Since the primary client is a XHTML web interface, authors can customize the client
appearance a great deal using standards-based XHTML and CSS -- even JavaScript or
Macromedia Flash can be embedded.

Feature Set
-----------
AJAX-Enabled Client
  The default client provides a standards-compliant web interface based
  on the Nevow Athena AJAX framework.
  
  Supported on the most recent versions of Firefox and Safari, probably
  works on various versions of Mozilla, Firefox,  Internet Explorer 6,
  Opera 9 and Camino.

Powerful Natural-Language Parser
  The built-in interpreter parses a large number of different imperative
  statements, making user-world interaction a more immersive experience.

Internal Scripting
  A Pure-Python scripting layer integrates tightly with the framework code,
  allowing a high degree of customization.
  
Robust Networking
  txSpace relies on the Twisted Python and Nevow frameworks to implement
  client-server communication. This robust asychronous networking library
  allows client connections to scale easily to hundreds of connections.

Graphical Object Editors
  Programmers and authors alike will find the built-in authoring tools
  expedite world creation and verb programming.

Syntax-Highlighting Verb Editor
  Verbs are created in-game, through an embedded editor. Support for
  external editors coming soon.


Copyright

  All of the code in this distribution is (C) Phil Christensen, except
  CodePress, Copyright (C) Fernando M.A.d.S. <fermads@gmail.com>

  txSpace is made available under the MIT/X Consortium license.
  The included LICENSE file describes this in detail.


